In this video we're going to continue to expand on our get tasks request adding other options that the
consumer of the API can use to further refine the data that they get back.
And in this lesson we're going to focus on enabling what's known as Pangea nation.
Let's go ahead and move to Google to find a good page nation example.
What I'm going to do is take one of my tabs and just google Paget nation examples and we'll go ahead
and find a good result in the search results.
And right here we actually have one.
The Google search results use Paget nation the pageant nation examples search returned to six million
results.
I do not have six million results on this page.
Instead I have the first 10 if I want to see more.
Down at the bottom I can go to Page 2 to view the next 10 page three to view that third set of 10 and
so on and so forth.
This is pageant nation.
It is the idea of creating pages of data that can be requested.
So you're not fetching everything all at once.
If I have 700 complete tasks I don't want to fetch and show seven hundred at the same time.
I could show maybe the first ten or the first 50 then fetch more if needed.
So in the case of Google they actually show you page numbers that you click between.
But this is not the only way to implement pageant nation.
You've probably seen other Web sites and applications show you a button when you get to the bottom of
the list something that says load more or view more.
You click the button and it depends more results right there and you continue to scroll down even other
applications use what you would typically call something like an infinite scrolling application such
as Instagram where it's automatically fetching the next pages of data behind the scenes as you're scrolling.
So that means that the user never needs to manually request more data it's automatically fetched for
you now regardless of what three of those approaches you actually want to implement for your app.
The back end is going to be the same.
We need a way for people requesting their tasks to specify which page of data they're trying to fetch.
And we're going to do that by setting up two new options for this request.
There are two options we're going to enable to add support for Paget nation.
The first is limit and the second is Skip.
Now both of these are going to get set equal to numbers and let's see how they would be used to recreate
the behavior we're seeing with Pangea nation on Google right here.
That is get forward slash tasks.
We'll be setting up that query string and I will start with limit limit allows us to limit the number
of results we get back for any given request.
Now in the case of Google we saw that regardless of which page we go to.
We're just getting Ted results right here.
If that's what we wanted we would set it equal to 10.
Now maybe you want to go way more than that like 50 or 100.
That's fine too.
You can set limit equal to that value.
Now the other half of the equation is Skip right here.
Skip is also going to get set equal to a number.
And this is what allows you to iterate over pages.
So if I skip zero and get 10 I'm getting the first 10 results.
If I skip 10 and then get 10 I'm getting the second set of 10.
So right here with zero I'm getting the first page on Google.
If I set it equal to 10 I'm skipping that first page getting the second page on Google.
And if I set it equal to 20 I get the third page and so on and so forth.
Now you could customize it to be whatever you want it.
You can have pages of 50 pages of 1 or pages of 1000 by adding support for limit.
And skip the client making the request.
We'll be able to customize how they want to use pages nation.
That we've seen what you are El structure is going to look like.
We need to figure out how we're going to provide this information to Mongoose.
So Mongoose can correctly populate the tasks and the answer is that we provide an options property right
here.
This options property can be used for Padgett nation and it can also be used for sorting which is a
topic we'll cover in the next lesson.
For now though we're not going to worry about that.
Well we have access to set on options is both limit and skip.
So right here I can set limit equal to two to limit it to just two tasks.
Let's go ahead and see if this actually works.
I'm going to save the program.
I'm going to head over to postmen and we'll try it out.
Now I am going to remove the completed query parameter as I want to make sure that I am getting all
four tasks back in terms of whether or not they're completed.
But I should only see two cents.
That's what I've asked for.
Right here I get just first and second showing up.
Now if I were to change limit to a different value I would see that many of it.
But what we're going to do is allow the user to provide it.
So what I'm gonna do right here is use the following I am going to use.
Pass it.
It's a function provided by javascript which allows us to pass a string that contains a number into
an actual Sure.
Which is what Mongoose expects.
Remember when someone provides a value as part of that query string it's always going to be a string.
We saw that with our value that we need to be a boolean right here and in the case of these numbers
they're not numbers in JavaScript they are strings with the characters 10 0 or 2 0 inside of them.
So we will pass the following integer.
What do we have.
We have request done query adopt limit.
So here we're taking the limit if any.
Passing it and sending an equal to the value.
Now if limit isn't provided or it's not a number it's going to be ignored by Mongoose which means that
we're only going to limit when it's actually a number that's provided.
Which is handy.
So right here we can save the task router we can head over to postmen and test this out.
Now if I fire off the request in its current state I would expect to see all four results right here.
That's exactly what I'm getting.
Now let's go ahead and set up.
Limit up above.
I'm gonna set limit equal to I'll go ahead and start off with one I fire that off and right here I get
just the first one I could change it to three if I wanted to pad unit in groups of three.
Down below I get the first three results and I could set it to something even higher like 10.
Now in this case I don't even have 10 results but down below I do get the first 10 that exist in this
case it's just 4.
If there were more though they would show up as the limit has been set to 10.
Now that we have that in place we want to go ahead and also set up support for Skip currently all we
can do is limit the number of tasks but we can't get the next group of whatever.
So if I want to limit in pages of two I can get the first two but I have no way to get the second to
what I'd want to do is set skip to two in order to get that done.
Let's go ahead and actually enable this over in visual studio code.
I'm going to switch over to visual studio code and this is gonna be your challenge for the video so
I'll paste those challenge comments up above what you're gonna do is set up support for the skip option
much like we just set up limit down below you want to make sure to pass the skip query parameter then
you want to use that as the value for the skip option.
Now once you have that in place like we do below you want to test things out.
So over from post man first fetch the first page of two results.
Then fetch the third page of two results for that first page.
I would expect to see the first and second tasks for the third page.
I would get nothing as there is no fifth or sixth task in the database.
Then fetch the first page of three and the second page of three the first page of three should contain
those first three tasks.
And the second page of three should contain just one which would be the fourth task we have in the database.
So take some time to knock that out and test your work when you're done come back and click play
now that go.
Let's go ahead and kick things off by setting up the skip option down below.
So right here the option on the options object is Skip.
And once again we're gonna use pass in because we have to provide a no request dot query dot right here.
Skip will allow us to get that done.
Now that's actually all we need to do in terms of code changes.
Now though I do want to fetch the pages by two and then by three.
Let's go ahead and kick that off over inside of post man.
So right here I am limiting by two and I'm going to set up skip right here.
I can set skip equal to zero or I could choose to leave it off altogether and this would give me the
first two results.
So down below that is exactly what I get.
I'm getting my first page of two.
Now if I wanted the second page of two I would set skip equal to two.
But I asked you for the third page of two which would be to skip four.
So right here if I fire that off it's grabbing the fifth and sixth task.
Those don't exist.
So down below we get nothing.
Next up I wanted you to fetch by pages of three.
So here I'll set limit to three and I'll start by fetching the first page by setting skip equal to zero.
I fire that off and I get the first of these second and third tasks.
That is all I'm getting back.
If I wanted to get the second page which is what I asked you to do you would set skip to three.
You skip those third three excuse me you skip those first three and you get the next three.
Now we only have one item in that next page of three.
It is fourth showing up though if there was a fifth and a sixth those would show up here as well.
So now that we have this in place we have a page nations set up for tasks.
Someone could use pages nation with the completed option at the exact same time to really customize
their data.
I could pageant over all of my incomplete tasks or I could pad unit over all of my completed tasks.
The choice is mine.
Next up we're going to focus on sorting data.
So if we want to get our data back in a specific order such as with the oldest incomplete tasks first
we need a way to actually get that done.
We're going to set that up in the next lesson.
So I'm going to save the file here and I'll see you in the next one.